---
created: 2026-01-11
tags:
  - type/daily-bridge
  - status/active
  - topic/evolution
  - topic/biology
  - topic/neuroscience
publish: true
---
# ðŸ“… [[2026-01-11]]

---

## ðŸŽ¯ THE MISSION (Float Block)
*The single 30-60 min Deep Work Goal (Reading/Writing).*
**GOAL:** 30 Mins of reading and annotating "The Gene Machine", a chapter in [[The Selfish Gene]]


---

## ðŸ“š KNOWLEDGE INTAKE
*Process your Cornell Notes here. 15 mins max.*

**SOURCE:** [[The Selfish Gene]] by [[Richard Dawkins]]

**âš›ï¸ ATOMIC EXTRACTION (Cues -> Links):**
* **Concept:** [[Computer Modeling]]
* **Concept:** [[Simulation]]
* **Concept:** [[Deceit]]

**ðŸ“ BRIEF SUMMARY:**
>This was a highly effective reading session. The following summary comes from my exact notes on my Remarkable 2 Cornell note for today's daily-bridge. 
>1. [[Evolution]] discovered [[Simulation]] as a fast, safe, and effective strategy for enhancing survival and reproduction. 
>	- Computer Modeling is analogous to "imagination" performed by biological entities. 
>	- [[Gene]]s are like policy makers or master programmers that build[[Nervous System]]s, and nervous systems are like the executive decision makers from moment to moment. 
>	- The More complex a nervous system becomes the more executive power it gains over its original programming, thus producing the peculiar situation of the human internal struggle between parts of the brain responsible for [[Intuition]]/[[Instinct]] and those in charge of [[Rationality]]/[[Reason]]. 
>2. Lying/Deceit in evolutionary terms refers to when an organism sends a false signal that influences the behavior of another organism, often in a way where the lie leads to the exploitation of the situation. For example if one animal sends a signal that is alarming others that a predator is nearby (when it is not the case) causing the prey to hide or run away, which then allows the liar to eat all of the nearby food, this can be considered evolutionary lying. 
>

---

## ðŸ”’ CLOSING THE LOOP
* **LESSON:** " "
* [x] **Inbox Zero:** (Drag new files from Inbox -> Atlas/Sources)